it's so impressive in here it catches
your eye from the ground
this ultra easy plane has the same name
as Etta for migratory bird called van
Ellis firm Ellis in the air this plane
is almost as perfect as its natural
prototype so say the pilots who had an
opportunity to rise with this machine
into the air MPO to Chaka is the latest
product of the company arrow cross from
Poland it is a pure extract of the many
years experience of this company in
design and construction of planes with
epoxy composition armed with carbon
filaments and glass the name is
descended from the migratory bird and
excellent proportions of the cabin the
compact composition supplements a
stabilizer in the arrangement tea thanks
to this this classical high wing
monoplane is recognizable among other
ultralight planes we know why this plane
is so beautiful it poses similar
classical proportions to those
inventions of the ancient Greeks
constructors from cross down took those
proportions into projecting the plane
the wing spread of the trike a permit in
relation to the length of the plane is
situated in the classical section of the
proportion six by nine this assures the
perfect bearing surface over ten square
meters with this machine one can fly far
and almost for free like with a glider
thanks to the special construction of
the thatch of the plane called the
sandwich Chaka can withstand pretty big
pressure from the plus 4 to minus 2 G
the machine is driven by an excellent
engine checked in different conditions
Rotax 912 the engine has 100 horsepower
that will do try cur up to the flight of
about 100 meters after takeoff at 100
horsepower the mounted Rotax engine
shaker has quite good parameters of
climbing not so much ultralight as the
high wing ma no place at the entire
weight almost 500 kilograms it can climb
7 meters per second
the constructions of Tiger succeeded to
combine in this machine many advantages
it is a plane which can be refueled at
every car gas station which possesses
the premium gasoline 95 star of octane
chocka is a super economic plane it
burns as much as a medium price car that
travels a greater distance without
refueling it can fly distance of 1500
kilometres Chaka has a three point
chassis with a torsional front wheel the
main wheel is equipped with disc brakes
the tracker cabin can contained two
adults the plane is equipped with a dual
control system it can be piloted from
both seats with the additional element
of the parachute rescue system everyone
in this plane can feel safe it is
assembled as standard the standard
equipment of the piloting navigational
system contains the speed indicator the
altimeter the compass the engine
controlled temperature indicators of
liquid and oils the pressure of oil the
RPM indicator and the fuel gauge trico
Constructors for saw the possibility of
mounting the electronic devices for
piloting radio navigation there is also
the place for additional supervisory
measuring devices for keeping record of
the working period and the parameters of
the engine these devices can be
assembled within the framework of the
accessories assembled extras at
customers requests can include landing
lights navigation lights and light
collision variometer clinometer and
transverse an electronic record keeper
of the working period plus engine
parameters electronic pilot devices
wireless navigational glass cockpits
transponder air broadcasting station
artificial horizon and GPS the checker
is a very resistant construction
outwardly it has
to be used for the towage of gliders the
people who have flown the chica have
commented on its excellent appearance
and the parameters of the plane are
meshed by the comfort and ease of
piloting this machine with the char you
can fly literally like taking a small
walk with the minimum speed 64 km/h
equally splendid it keeps at the
economic speed of 165 km/h and a maximum
speed 230 km/h this plane can also be a
familiar plane Arrow Cross can add the
suitable color to the upholstery and
varnish the plane as according to the
customers wishes
you